I am somebody who is quite inspired by
science fiction and
when you read science fiction
that covers societies that have
progressed far enough in its
technological maturity, you always see
two pillars.
You have some version of AGI
and you have some version of simulations
that really help guide the society.
I do see an opportunity today to really
take the first crack at building the
simulation.
I would not have said that even 5 years
ago.
But that is a conviction that we have
built up over the years as we are going
deep into this research.
>> [music]
>> Today, we're delighted to have June,
founder and CEO of Simile. Simile's
building an applied AI lab simulating
human behavior and societies. And I'm
very excited to have you here to discuss
what you're building.
>> Same here. Thanks for having me.
>> Okay, take me back to April 2023,
Stanford, California. Specifically,
Smallville, Stanford, California. What
was what was that?
>> So, Smallville was a project that we
were running at Stanford where the idea
was that we made this observation that
large language models can now encode a
lot of human behavior that is embedded
in its training data from the web and
social media and so forth that if you
sort of probe it the right angle, you
can actually get a lot of micro
behaviors out of these models.
So, given a very specific demonstration
or description of a situation, what
would person X do? And it would actually
generate really interesting behaviors.
We found that to be so interesting and
we found that to be the ingredient that
we have been waiting for for creating
really complex agentic behaviors. So,
Smallville actually was an experiment
where we decided that if we push this as
far as possible, what would a society
that is created by these agents look
like? So, we basically created
generative agents that is paired with
generative AI model with memory,
planning, and reflection to basically
create this lived experience of agents
living in this small town. So, a
Smallville was basically a game town of
25 agents living in it.
Individual agents had a description of
persona, but they would actually wake up
in the morning, do their routines, go to
work, actually have relationship sort of
like people would, and they would
actually have emergent phenomena like
having parties and so forth. So, that
was the experiment that we ran.
>> What was the most surprising things to
come out of the experiment?
>> So, one of the surprising things was So,
the experiment, the simulation itself
actually takes place the day before a
Valentine's Day.
So, you actually see these agents, one
of the agents actually thinking, "Well,
I run a cafe." So, she's a cafe owner,
her name is Isabella. She goes and
thinks, "It'd be great if I can do a
Valentine's Day party where we invite
friends, customers." So, you actually
see her on the day before Valentine's
Day going around, actually gathering
materials for the party, actually
telling her customers, "Hey, we're going
to have this party. Please come." And on
the day of Valentine's, you actually see
this emergent party that actually gets
formed with all these agents coming to
the
to the basically cafe.
>> not get invited?
>> Well, some of the people did get invite
invitation, but they forgot. That's one
thing that did happen.
Uh some of the agents did not explicitly
get invited, but we had one agent who
got the invite Claus who decided to ask
his crush out on a date. So, he would
actually bring in the date, they would
actually have a party at this cafe. So,
quite surreal.
>> So, how did you end up building
Smallville in the first place? Like,
were you studying kind of human
psychology and social behavior, or was
this coming from Was this coming from
the kind of customer back, or was it
coming from the technology out?
>> So, my particular team has been excited
about simulations, and we saw the vision
of simulation failure early on.
So, my career as a researcher at
Stanford really started back in 2020.
That was the year when GPT-3 was about
to come out. It wasn't quite there yet.
But, it was just about to come out. We
started to get its first demos. And my
first year, we wrote this paper called
Opportunities and Risks of Foundation
Model alongside many of the Stanford
researchers. It was led by one of my
co-founders, Percy Liang, who is now the
head of the Center for Foundation Model
at Stanford. And when we were writing
that, the part that I was really focused
on was, well, here's a new class of
models that we have not seen in the
past. That these models that can be very
generalizable in ways we didn't quite
have in the past. And I got into
thinking, well,
if we can imagine the kind of
interaction we can create with these
models, what would that be? And many of
my colleagues back then were surprised
that these agents or these models can do
classification or simple generation. And
that was really incredible to see
because these models didn't really know
or didn't really wasn't really taught to
do that.
But, the part that was surprising to me
wasn't that these models can do that
because from interaction perspective,
we've known how to do this for a long
time. The interesting part was, well,
these models can actually include human
behavior. What does that mean? If we
were to push this as far as possible.
So,
part of the tradition I come from
research included what we call social
computing. And social computing within
human computer interaction really has to
do with this idea of how can we build a
better technical technological platform
that would enable social interactions
and collaboration.
One of the most difficult challenges of
building a social platform is not
necessarily testing the UI UX of the
system, but it's more about when you
have tens of people,
millions of people, and down the line
billions of people, how do all these
people come together to create the
emergent phenomena that's both good and
bad, and how can we design for scale?
And so far, we didn't really have a tool
that would enable us to test for that.
The only way we test it today is you
basically field test it. You release
your prototype, see what happens, and
sometimes it actually comes at a real
cost. Obviously, it's high cost in terms
of human hours and the time it takes.
But at the same time, if you have a bad
design, imagine you have a feed on
social media that is more likely to
propagate certain emotion that is
negative, then obviously that is
something that we want to avoid. But
this now gets tested in the in the
field. So, we wanted to see whether we
can actually create a simulation that
would actually let you test for this.
So, 2022, this was actually a year
before generative agents, we worked on a
paper called Social Simulacra, which
actually really was the precursor to the
agent paper that we ended up writing.
The core thesis was, imagine you're
building a subreddit. You're a designer
on a subreddit, you want to see what
people might do in the subreddit, which
is surprisingly hard task even for a
practice designers.
And we basically decided, "Hey, we have
this model, seems unique. Let's use this
model to create simulations of the
entire subreddit."
So, you define the goal, you define the
moderation strategies, and you populate
it with thousands of what back then we
didn't call them agents, but we called
them personas, but populate it with
thousands of personas. This is basically
22 version of Mob book, which is quite
interesting that it actually came back.
And when we saw that, we actually got a
lot of really important insights out of
this.
What are the good behaviors? We actually
simulated a community where the entire
idea was for people to discuss with each
other the sightseeing of places to
sightsee in Pittsburgh.
And all of a sudden, you start to see
these personas actually collaborate to
actually discuss, "Hey, XYZ places are
amazing. Do you want to actually go to a
trip together?" And actually plan those
trips live in the simulated subreddit.
So, that's how we got excited. So, we
saw the vision and the excitement and
the potential applications very early
on. But then the work that we had to do
was then demonstrating how can we go
beyond simple personas to create complex
agents that actually can think over time
because we want to simulate the
longitudinal aspect of the our society.
And then actually validating that these
simulations are actually accurate in
practice.
>> Was there a point of model evolution at
which you felt like, "Okay, we're there.
The The models are good enough for us to
actually have a
you know, faithful representation of
human society?"
>> So, GPT-3 free when it came out and
Social Sim was built with GPT-3 and was
very junky. It didn't do any instruction
tuning. It did not follow your
instructions. So, just to have it to
listen to you and do what you wanted to
do, you had to do some weird tricks with
prompting and so forth. But you could
actually see the promise. The model
actually have encoded a lot of human
behavior and you could actually see the
trajectory. And when we had the
generative agents paper, wasn't quite
ChatGPT, but we now had instruction
tuning. So, we could actually build much
more complex agents that can reason
about its memory. That wasn't really
possible when we did Social Sim.
And since then, of course, the models
have improved. So, where we are today is
the models at its foundation level have
reached a point where we can actually
imagine building these kind of
applications.
Now, the part that actually I do think,
however, that's quite interesting here.
Today, if you look at many of the large
language model companies, whether it's
OpenAI, Anthropic, and many of the new
labs that are getting formed, the models
they are creating are models that I
would consider to be their North Star to
be something that is similar to let's
build a super intelligent machines.
These machines are meant to be rational.
And these machines are supposed to be
really amazing at technical problems
that have an objective answer.
>> So, maybe that's not even the best
simulation of
true human society then.
>> Turns out
>> Yeah.
>> people are irrational.
>> Right? We have a lot of subjective
values, preferences, and taste.
So, you actually start to see divergence
in model size going up and the
performance in its ability to predict
and simulate human behavior.
So, we have sort of plateaued
with current modeling paradigm, our
ability to really simulate humans.
So,
it is sort of at the starting good
foundational level, but to make it
really amazing, we do need the next
frontier that is more geared towards
actually modeling people's diversity.
>> Very interesting.
At what point did you realize that, you
know, what you did with Smallville could
become a company?
>> Right.
So,
again, the promise of the application
was something that I was very much
inspired by early on by simulation with
social simulator current so forth. But,
the part that I realized over time is
research and a company have very
different function.
Research is an amazing vehicle if you
want to basically do breath-first
search.
You are in a lab surrounded by really
smart set of people, and each of our
each of the researchers own a small
piece of thesis.
And they go explore some of those thesis
blossom into amazing research product.
But, we're not necessarily known for
finishing our job. We're not usually the
one to bring that research impact to the
real world.
Company
is a machine for depth-first search.
You have a conviction on an area. You
find a hill that you want to climb. This
is the vehicle that let you put together
resources and an amazing group of people
to go after a singular vision without
hesitation.
And we got that conviction, I would say
about half year after Generative Agents.
After the original Generative Agents
paper, we got so much inbound interest,
initially from actually social
scientists who wanted to run their
experiments and all the RC RCTs on our
platform. Then very soon after, many of
the Fortune 500 companies who saw this
demo and their board members and CEOs
who sometimes visit Stanford Soda and
they start asking well we go run all
these surveys and experiments and
there's so many research questions about
the market that we cannot answer today.
Can we run that in simulation? That sort
of really intrigued me because that
showed a clear line towards a real world
impact for research which is not always
the case that we have that kind of
opportunity.
So that is when we decided we actually
want to validate the simulations are
accurate. So we went out and actually
created simulations of thousand people
of the US population. We demonstrated
that using our architecture and the
models we can actually predict people's
behaviors 85% as accurately as people
replicate their own. When we saw that we
thought okay, this is something that we
feel comfortable providing to our users
as a platform for simulating their
really important decisions.
So that's when the co-founders myself,
Percy as well as Michael Bernstein was a
researcher and my advisor at Stanford.
Both of them were actually my advisors.
So the three of us have been working
together for five years and now at this
point at Similac six years. But that's
when we got together to have the initial
conversation of can this be a company?
>> Got it. Amazing. Um maybe walk me
through a customer engagement end-to-end
today. Like who's a canonical customer
and at which department and
they come to you, what are they asking
you
and you know, what product do you or
service do you deliver to them?
>> Right. So maybe an example that I can
give to make this concrete. Um so CVS
has been partnering with Similac for the
past I would say nearly half a year.
And they're they've been an amazing
partner. The way we initially got in
touch with so our main buyer at CVS is
the lead is a senior VP who leads human
insights.
And original story there was he was
he basically read my paper that
validated the agent simulations and
thought, "We have to bring this to CBS
because today we are bottlenecked by the
number of questions we can field test.
And we're also bottlenecked by truly the
physics of human society. It's one thing
to ask surveys and experiments. Totally
different thing if down the line you
actually want to simulate the entire
market and actually map out all the
second-order impact of the decisions you
suggest to your leadership."
So, he's been looking around for the
solution and his cousin happened to know
me
and basically told our buyer, Shri, that
the authors of the paper are actually
looking to start something. So, that's
how we got connected.
And in this particular engagement,
usually the way this goes is our
customers are very much used to working
with polling companies or panel
companies today.
And there they go and basically ask
these companies, "XYZ are the
populations that we're interested in
better understanding.
Can we go run a research study of these
topics?"
That initial stage looks very similar
for Simily.
So, our buyers come and they tell us,
"We want to better understand XYZ
population."
Then Simily goes out and we have through
our partnership with vendors, we have a
strategic partnership now with Gallup,
for instance, who is a polling and panel
company,
where we go out, work with our vendors
to actually reach out to real humans, so
these simulations are grounded in real
data, but reach out to those people,
collect data
that we believe are efficient and
generalizable about that person. So,
imagine you have 15 minutes, what are
the magical questions you can answer or
you can ask these people during that
time? We collect that data, use that
data to create agents or simulations of
these people that can basically be used
to answer a large number of questions
that goes way beyond the original
domain.
We load that entire platform and it's
basically a SaaS product. Our customers
come and they can basically ask any
questions about the group of people of
their interest.
>> So interesting. It reminds me of
in autonomous vehicles, you know, you go
and collect a bunch of data from the
road and then you're able to augment it
with simulation. Is this a similar
concept or are there big differences to
to what you're doing here?
>> It is similar concept in the sense that
of course you
with the self-driving vehicles, you want
to create model
that is based on real-world physics.
But you want to create a model that is
generalizable beyond your training data.
It needs to be generalizable in two
different locations with different
weather conditions. Very similar concept
where what we want to create is we want
to reach out to real people and for
these people want to understand
something fundamental about these people
in a way that we can encode into the
model.
>> I would have thought that the large
language models would be such a good
representation of you know, the whole
world that you could almost narrow it
down. You could tell
Claude, you are a 34-year-old woman
living in a you know, bi-coastal
metropolitan area. And you know, it
would be able to have a faithful
representation. So I'm actually
surprised that you go out to Gallup.
Maybe can you just explain why you have
to go out and collect any real-world
data at all?
>> Yeah. One of the big questions here is
the question around say-do gap. There
are things that people say
and then there are people there are
things that people actually do.
And the gap there is real.
And a lot of the large language models
are trained on attitudinal data.
Fundamentally, it is the things that
people have said online. That does cover
a large quantity of its training data.
So one of the things that SimuLyze
simulation platform does is actually
closing that gap. So a lot of the data
that we end up collecting by nature are
behavioral.
It also includes data that actually goes
into literally questions like just tell
me the story of your life.
Turns out, if we understand the person's
story of your life, the kind of data you
get from it is what we consider to be
the long tail information about this
person. It's not about um
what you've done in this particular
moment. It's not about very broad
questions like what's your view on
politics. It's about where you grew up,
what you what were some of the difficult
decisions you had to make in in life.
And what's interesting about this data
is it's an amazing way to build a
translational layer between attitudes
and behavior.
So, we combine these kind of data sets,
but fundamentally, that's the gap that
we want to close.
>> What sort of behavioral data do you
have?
>> So, Simily does run a lot of
experiments. So, kind of models that we
have trained, uh for instance, we have a
huge repo of RCTs. So, randomized
controlled trials that were run in
social scientific context, that were run
around pricing studies.
So, one of the models that we are
training is basically the foundational
model of human behavior in quite a
literal sense. We have all the
behavioral signal from RCTs. Can we
actually encode that into the model
so that the end outcome is a model that
can basically predict the results of any
RCTs?
At the same time, um one of the
conversations that we keep on having
with our customers that we're very
excited by
is our customers then come in, see that
potential, and their mind goes to, well,
we have 90 million customers, let's say,
for a CVS.
How can we leverage this kind of data
to create better simulations?
So, there's also conversation around how
can we, in a responsible and ethical
way, leverage existing data
that is also in-house for our customers,
then use that to create augmented
version of Simily's model. So, that, of
course, is going to be more fine-tuned,
specific to the population of these
customers.
>> Yeah.
>> But, that's the kind of data that we
would be leveraging.
>> I see.
And are you doing these interviews
typically by voice? Is it Is it a survey
that you filled out Like, the modality?
>> So it's a huge breath.
The quick answer here is it's both.
Interviews are fantastic if you want to
get the long tail information about
people.
So we actually do in the original study
that I conducted back in 2024 we
literally ask questions tell me the
story of your life.
Now the way we do it is we are training
our own model. So it's a reinforcement
learning loop but basically imagine the
objective function here is how can you
spend the minimum amount of time
to get the maximum amount of
visibility about this person.
So that is one of the things that we do.
So basically training an interviewer
that is not really asking for factual
information or an experience about a
particular platform but just what are
the life story that people have that can
be used to train our own model for these
agents.
And then for the more factual or sort of
more discrete choices and choice
questions surveys and so forth. These
are also very efficient. These are the
time and data efficient because people
can fill out many of the questions in
short period of time. So for those we
actually do leverage them and for
instance if you want to just have a
broader understanding of people's
viewpoints and certain topics certain
policies and things like that.
>> You describe yourself as an applied AI
lab.
>> Mhm.
>> How do you think about where you want to
build your own models versus where you
want to rely on other existing models?
>> So in terms of building our own model
we have the core thesis here is there is
an amazing model to be built that really
uncovers the diversity of people's
values preferences and taste
in ways that simply a rational model
cannot do.
So one way I actually pose this we're
sort of building say imagine the current
today's model
are akin to the CPU of intelligence
unit. It's a single model trained on
amazingly rational data that is amazing
at solving very complex objective
questions.
Simulytics model is much more akin to
developing something that is close to
closer to the GPU of the intelligence
unit.
Where the idea here is we don't actually
need a model that is superhuman at
Simulytics. In fact, we want model
that's as human as possible.
But we want to make sure that these
models at the sort of individual sub
units can represent the real viewpoints
of different sub populations.
So, where we see that gap, that's when
we go develop our own model. But at the
same time, we do leverage frontier
models, for instance, as a way to
coordinate the research. Frontier models
are amazing at coming up with a research
plan. So, that's where those models
actually do get leveraged.
>> Very interesting.
Um are people typically coming to you
with questions around new product
launches,
uh you know, how they should be
marketing their companies,
pricing, all of the above?
>> So, it's it is all of the above.
>> Okay.
>> Our journey usually does, however, start
with a very concrete use cases and
problems they are trying to solve. Uh
concept testing is a big one. It's also
very straightforward one. So, they have
a new concept, new product idea, new
market message they want to test. And
they want to hear from their users what
they would think about XYZ.
This is one way for them to quickly test
those ideas.
And then the promise they quickly see
is, well, right now we're very much in
the practice of testing five to 10
different ideas a month.
But what does it look like for us to
test instantly thousands of different
ideas across thousand different sub
populations?
That's the initial vision they see.
Then we really get into the nitty-gritty
details of, well, where does the
simulation go from here?
They then pretty soon start asking,
well, can this be used to do product
testing, but not just simply submitting
an image, but imagine basically asking
these agents go experience this product
for 10 minutes and tell us about what
you experienced, what you saw. So,
you're basically adding temporal
dimension.
Then you go into things like multi-agent
simulation.
Some of our customers very routinely
actually ask us
to simulate their earnings call. This is
actually a use case that both surprised
me at first, but this is also
surprisingly a common ask. Because of
course the CEOs and board members always
need to think about, "Hey, how are we
going to design our earnings call? How
would the the audience react?"
>> Yeah.
>> So, that is something that we also do
and this is very much a multi-agent
simulation.
>> You know, it seems like there's so many
use cases that could potentially be
tested once you have like a simulated
almost customer population, right? Um
I'm curious
the value of research and testing in sim
versus just like, let's say you have a
new product concept that you want to
test. Why not just go run a thousand
Facebook ads and like you actually get
the click-through rates on this stuff.
Isn't that real-world data almost more
useful than the simulated data on how
people might behave that you then
correct for with your own models?
>> So, it's a great question and I think to
some extent here the answer has to do
with initially scale
and then down the line truly the new
capability that comes because you can
simulate the interactions. The scale
question here is actually quite
straightforward where yes, you can
absolutely run Facebook ads and Facebook
testing.
But the kind of experiments that you can
run in simulation is actual behavior
simulation at scale. All right, so you
can basically pull in any number of
users, doesn't even have to be bounded
by the number of population that's
available on Facebook.
And it's also much more representative
because only certain groups of people
will actually respond to the online
experiments. But similarly, the model
that we are creating, one of the key
promises is that it is representative.
We do the hard work of actually gaining
the representative set of people and
then collecting the data that would
actually represent them properly.
So, the scale representativeness is
something that many of our users do not
have easy access to. This is actually
one of the common ask also that we do
get or common or pain points that we
have heard. Where the question that many
of these people have isn't about like
what questions do we ask these people,
but it's about in the first place, how
can we get to the population that we're
excited to talk to? That's a huge bottom
line.
Then down the line, you can actually
really start to imagine and this is
something that our customers and some of
the most forward-looking customers are
now going into,
which is
what are all the downstream implication
of the decisions you make? It's not just
about whether imagine you have this
particular product, will do you like it
or do you not like it? Would you pay for
this, not pay for this? It's not
necessarily the
just that initial questions that we want
to answer and finish,
but we want to understand, imagine
you're a car company,
you launched an electric vehicle in this
market.
Maybe the electric vehicle does really,
really well. So, we can help you do
concept testing around marketing and the
product around the electric vehicle.
But what does that do to the perception
of, let's say, non-electric vehicle?
Does it change the market perception?
Then what does it mean for the rest of
the product line?
And how do you balance those kind of
second order impact of your decision
in a way that is more evidence-based?
Today, there's no way to test for this.
>> Yeah.
>> You can run this in simulation. So,
really going beyond simply asking one
question at a time, but then to think
about what are the long-term
implications of your decisions is
something that our customers are quite
excited by.
>> I'd love to understand how you think
about how predictive your model is in
actually simulating real human behavior.
I imagine you have a lot of evals on
this. I guess what is your North Star
metric? How do you guys do on that? Um
and you know, what do you think is the
theoretical limit?
>> It's a great question.
So, theoretical limit, and let me just
start from there. So, certainly it does
exist in the sense that humans are
genuinely there's a lot of randomness
that if you ask me the same question,
I'll actually answer the question
slightly differently.
So, there is certainly that degree of
randomness in human behavior. However,
there's a lot of gains in performance
that we can have even today in the way
we are predicting people.
So, the measurement that we do is so at
the level of population, we measure the
distribution of responses if it is more
quantitative. So, we actually measure
total variation distance, which
basically shows how close are the
distributions of the ground truth versus
the simulated information.
And that is a metric that we run across
all the use cases that our customers
have.
And we have certain threshold that we
believe is good enough for decision
making.
So, TVD of let's say less than 0.15, we
believe is actually quite strong
evidence for making decision.
So, that is a North Star state that we
want to hit for this class of use cases
that are more quantitative, that's more
question and answers. This also does
cover RCTs, which is many of the core
use cases our customers have.
Now, there's actually a really
interesting then question to ask around,
well, what about multi-agent relation?
What about all the downstream
implications that we're going to be
simulating? What does
the evaluation of those look like?
>> Yeah, and then do daisy chain errors as
you kind of
you know, if this one is 85% accurate
and then this agent is telling another
agent something and you know, like do
you accumulate errors as you go as you
go towards multi-agent?
>> Exactly.
And one of the core thesis here is we
basically see two categories of
simulations.
One simulation is what I would consider
to be simulations that converge.
The other categories of simulations are
the simulations that diverge. And
sometimes they actually coexist and it's
really about what the research question
do you have. Questions that converge
doesn't actually matter if you have a
little bit of error. Now, the error
cannot be obviously so dramatic that it
sort of is completely detached from
reality, but you actually are okay even
if the errors do compound over time
because the pool towards the convergence
is strong enough that you'll actually
understand where everything would fall.
A good example here actually is if you
simulate a network of people
then that network will always have a hub
that gets formed. This is what sort of
network scientists would call the
scale-free network for instance. This is
actually what powered Google, too. Well,
the core observation of PageRank was
doesn't matter how these networks
actually get formulated, you actually
see some web pages that get
exponentially more links that are
attached to it. This is a very
fundamental uh behavior in humans
that we also see in simulated networks.
And that convergence always happens as
long as you're replicating human
behavior with certain threshold
accuracy.
Now, there are other questions that
generally do diverge. It's like your
classical questions like was World War I
inevitable or was it not?
And there it is sometimes difficult to
run the same simulation over time and
get the same exact outcome.
Imagine you're running a
This is not something that necessarily
similar right now and is going to, but
imagine you're running a simulation of
an election.
Will the same person win the election
every time? There are a lot of
downstream implications of every single
decision that does happen. So, it does
diverge.
There, the core evaluation is around
confidence.
So, you imagine you run the simulation
100 times,
how many of those times do the results
come out to be X?
And how can we actually use that to
basically create a bootstrap resampling
to calculate the confidence around the
simulations?
Those are some of the questions that we
do ask.
And a huge part of this also of the
power of simulation is then to show when
it diverges, to show the
diversity of possible outcomes, so that
people can actually look, understand the
cause or mechanism of how we got to
those outcomes, and prepare for those
futures.
So, those are some of the implications
of divergence in simulations.
>> Are there any mathematical descriptions
of like why something would converge or
diverge? Like I'm imagining if you have
like an average function, maybe you
converge, and then if it's like a you
know, you're splitting outcomes to a
binary, then you might maybe diverge,
but
>> Yeah.
So, the intuition, I think, is close. Uh
and technically, this is also a research
topic. So, Similarly is a Zortニア company
where we do go deep into this research
topic. In the sense that I see
simulation as a field as akin to
developing your day one of inferential
statistics.
You know, inferential statistics
scientists actually had to do a lot of
this question and research over time to
decide that P less than 0.05 is actually
evidence that is strong enough for
science.
Similarly, is working on setting the
same kind of threshold and standards for
the rest of the field. So, those are the
intuition. I think that's exactly the
right intuition in terms of actually how
to make a robust mathematical equation
around when's going to like what's going
to happen when. It is a real research
frontier for simulations.
>> Thank you for bringing nice about my
vibe mathing. Um I'm curious, you know,
it seems like so a lot of 400 coming to
you.
I'm wondering whether there are, you
know, non-existing corporate use cases
that might, you know, that are like
great mysteries of our society that
might become solved. And for example,
I'm wondering about economics, you know,
central bank decisions. Oftentimes, like
you know, I've I I personally believe in
that macro nobody is nobody knows
nothing.
Uh and oftentimes a lot of the issues
come about from human psychology.
Um so, to me, macroeconomics is a
function of simulating human behavior at
scale.
You know, I'm thinking even in the
venture capital use case, we we often
debate internally,
you know, does value accrue to this
company or not? You could You could You
could run the simulation of all the
different layers of the AI stack and and
almost figure out where durability and
value value accrues. Like, if you had a
kind of perfect simulator of human
behavior,
there's so much more you could do than
serving the five Fortune 500. Do you
agree with that? And then, if so, are
you serving governments,
uh you know, and the like?
>> Yeah. So, it's interesting. Um when we
were still researching in this area, the
way I actually got
back then my advisors, Michael and
Percy, excited about this
was I basically told them, "Look,
we do this right, there's a Nobel Prize
to be won there."
And I truly believe that.
And
it's also not surprising in that your
classical
economics uh simulations, things like
agent-based models, they really
pioneered our understanding of back in
the day, the kind of topics they studied
was, "How does segregation happen? What
are the cause and mechanism for
segregation?" So, it's scholars like
Thomas Schelling would actually build
agent-based models that are extremely
simple and rudimentary, but they showed
something deep about human
macro behaviors. And he, of course, went
on to win a Nobel Prize. I see the same
opportunity here,
but in an augmented way, where back in
the day, the agent-based models were
very much deterministic in some sense,
where you basically in this simulation
of
let's say like models of segregation
from like 30 years ago,
individual agents were simply red dot or
blue dot. And every game iteration, they
would look around its corner, see how
many of its neighbors are of the same
color, and if that threshold goes below
certain threshold, then they would
decide to move to a new location. That
was it.
But now, we can actually create real
agents that replicate the full richness
of individuals and run the same kind of
simulations.
So, the kind of questions that we can
ask that goes beyond simply the
commercial use cases,
for instance, in the in the context of
macroeconomics, actually the questions
that I actually did get asked from
economist were things like, "When does
bank run happen?"
Or questions like climate change. One of
the sort of core blocker of climate like
solving that issue is the collective
action problem of many nations. Can we
actually simulate that? Or what are the
signals
of a democracy that is about to
collapse?
Can we understand the origin story of
the monetary system?
These are the kind of simulations that I
do believe ought to be the North Star
state of this field.
And it is sort of interesting to imagine
like what that would actually look like
in practice, right? Because these would
involve very large-scale simulations
with many agents interacting with each
other.
I do see a future where
today this is something that I case.
Today a simulation is quick and fast to
run.
But what about simulation that takes
actually a hundred million dollars to
run once?
And could take many months to run. But
when we run it, it solves one of the
fundamental questions of our society.
That I do think is genuinely a very
exciting possibility for this field.
>> I agree.
I'm even thinking like politics, for
example, could be forever changed. Uh
today everyone has an agenda of how they
say
some policy change will affect will
impact things.
Well, why don't we just run the
simulation?
>> And understand all the downstream
implications.
>> Yeah.
>> And not just what's going to happen this
year, but what does it mean in the next
five to ten years?
>> Exactly.
Fascinating. I was going to close by
asking you what makes you excited about
the future? Is it what we just talked
about or is it something else?
>> I am somebody who is quite inspired by
science fiction. And
when you read science fiction
that covers societies that have
progressed far enough in its
technological maturity, you always see
two pillars.
You have some version of AGI.
And you have some version of simulations
that really help guide the society.
I do see an opportunity today
to really take the first crack at
building the simulation.
I would not have said that even 5 years
ago.
But that is a conviction that we have
built up over the years as we are going
deep into this research.
And what's exciting is there's a clear
use case today that can serve our users.
But then there's a lot of that is yet to
come that I do think we'll build up to
actually building simulator that's akin
to the CERN
of human society.
And one of the things that my
co-founder Percy sometimes say is you
look at the greatest scientific
innovation.
They often start from an amazing
measurement.
Hubble telescope really changed the
trajectory of how we understand the
universe.
Simulation can be that for human
society.
So the thing that does excite me,
there's a lot of focus on natural
sciences, but how can social how can
simulation really unlock our
understanding of humanity and social
sciences? And how can we actually use it
to make our society be a better place?
That's exciting.
>> I remember reading somebody was excited
about, you know, there's a small but
you know, breathtaking chance that you
know, the field of economics as we know
it may actually become solved by
simulation. And I'd extend that not just
to the economics, but
kind of everything that deals with
human behavior
uh
and social sciences, which ultimately is
everything around us.
>> Truly.
>> Wonderful. Thank you so much for joining
today and sharing the story of both
Smellville and what you're now up to at
Simile. I really enjoyed the
conversation.
>> Same here. Thank you for having me.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Oh.